### Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources

Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR) is a framework for exchanging healthcare information developed by Health Level 7 (HL7) International. Approximately 96% of hospitals and 74% of clinicians were found to have some form of a FHIR API in their EHR. The FHIR standard is built around the concept of resources: health information is recorded in modular units (the resources), and may be exchanged as-is or bundled with other resources for more complex workflows. These resources are intended to be self-contained with rich description of the information content within. For example, the Patient resource contains an identifier attribute (for one or more identifiers such as medical record number), a name attribute, and so on. Users who adopt FHIR are able to independently develop tools knowing the syntactic structure of the data, e.g. that the name attribute of the Patient resource will follow the stipulated structure and patient given names are stored in an attribute exactly named “given”. Although no exchange format is mandated by the FHIR standard, typically JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is used. Information exchange thus becomes sending and receiving JSON files which follow constraints specified by the FHIR standard, e.g. if exchanging a patient’s birth date information within the Patient resource, the JSON field name must be “birthDate” and the value must be a date in the form of YYYY-MM-DD.

The wide variability of healthcare contexts makes it difficult to specify broadly applicable configurations such as the birth date example above. The FHIR solution is the use of profiles, which allow for additional specification for a particular context. Profiles allow requiring presence of attributes over and above the base standard, e.g., the base standard does not require any identifiers such as medical record number for the patient, whereas we would stipulate this requirement through a profile. Profiles are an established, extensible, and computable mechanism for defining the semantics of stored data. Adopting the FHIR standard unlocks mature tooling around interoperability, validation of data content, RESTful web services, and information exchange. A great deal of interest exists around FHIR for interoperable health exchange, but almost all implementations are not considering analytical workflows. Using FHIR for research and AI development is vital at this stage to ensure the use case is considered in ongoing standard development workgroups.

FHIR resources are intended to be self-encapsulated, requiring minimal if any external references to understand their content. This approach increases verbosity of the resource in exchange for semantic clarity. The added description is extremely useful for data exchange but slows down analytic workflows as redundant information must be repeatedly processed. The ideal approach would take advantage of the rich detail possible in FHIR resources while simultaneously integrating with currently available tooling. We will accomplish this task through software which transforms a set of FHIR resources into a relational model amenable to analytic workflows. A single shared code base will ingest, restructure, and output data into a relational common data model (CDM). CDMs, particularly those in healthcare, define a specific organization of relational tables which are designed to optimally support analytic workloads. The core innovation of this approach is in adopting FHIR as the archival format allowing lossless storage of the acquired data. The FHIR to CDM toolkit will extract a subset of FHIR attributes and reshape them into the more efficient format for analysis. The transformation process will be consistent and repeatable, allowing augmentation as CDMs expand to capture more data elements.